00:00
Can I show you how anyone, even beginners, can start a high-converting print on demand Shopify store and business step by step? And can I also give you a free course that shows you the exact tools and apps that I've used to scale and earn passive income from my own Shopify print on demand stores so that you can use them too? Well, this is the challenge that I have set myself today. That's right. I have created this free updated print on demand course here on YouTube. It is going to cover lots of topics from how I create viral designs that I sell onto products to my layout tricks that I use to create high converting Shopify stores to even how I drive free traffic and get customers to buy my products.

00:38
These are all the topics that I'll be covering in this tutorial and course. Each topic is its own chapter. And I'll also include timestamps to each chapter in the video description. And as you can see, we've got a lot to get through and I don't want to waste your time. So, thank you Dotto for sponsoring this free course. And let's just jump straight into it. And we'll start out by doing a quick preview of the store that we are going to build. And as you can see, we are building a full proper working store and business. It has products that customers can actually come in and buy and a payment processor system that actually works.

01:12
Hopefully, at the end of this course, you will have a store that you can launch and customers can come in and buy products from you. And here's the thing, right? This is a store layout that I've already tested. I've actually started a new store and I've driven free traffic to it and converted it with new customers despite having no social proof or reviews for the brand. So, I know that this layout that I'm showing you here actually works. And I've made sure to keep startup costs low because I know that when you're just starting a new business, understandably, your budget is tight, right? So, this layout uses a free theme and it has no apps and any upfront fees at all.

01:52
So, you will be able to keep all of your startup costs super low. So, yes, this is the store that we will be building. So, let's get started. And we'll start off by getting a free Shopify trial account. And it's pretty crazy because as of me filming this video, Shopify is still offering possibly the best deal that they've ever had, which is that you get a free 3-day trial account and then after that, you only pay $1 per month for the first 3 months. So basically, you can start a new store and only pay $3 for the first 3 months. However, Shopify does change their special offers. And so depending upon when you're watching this,

02:29
their special offer might be different. But either way, to get their best current offer, I have a special landing page in conjunction with Shopify for viewers of this channel. Please note though, if you do use it, that is an affiliate link. Using it is entirely optional, but it is always appreciated. So, thank you if you choose to use it. But yes, just click my affiliate link in the description of this video and you'll be taken to this page. Then just come and enter your email and click to get started. Then just create and choose a password and head on over to the next page. Then after that, you'll be taken to a payment page.

03:01
Here you can choose to register with either a credit card, debit card, or PayPal account. And just to be clear, you will not be charged $1 when you add this. You still get to have your free 3-day subscription. Shopify is just collecting your card now so that if you don't cancel within those 3 days, you will then move over to paying $1 a month for the first 3 months. But if you do choose to cancel, then you won't get charged anything. Then after that, pick whichever plan you would like to be subscribed to. All of these plans you can see have the same $1 per month for 3 months offer right now. However, once those three months have finished,

03:34
most people are probably going to want to be on their lowest cost plan. So I went ahead and clicked the basic plan for this tutorial. Then after that, you'll need to enter your business address. If you don't have a business location, like an office, you can just use your home address and then click continue. Then you'll be taken to a survey. You can either fill it out or skip it. This is optional. And then that's it. Shopify will now take you to your dashboard. And so now we can start customizing our store by adding in a free high-converting Shopify theme. And this is very easy to do. So on the left side menu,

04:04
click online store. And then you'll be taken to the themes page. Now, in here, you can see that Shopify installs a free theme by default for us, which is currently the Horizon theme, but you can change this if you like. If you scroll down the page, you will find a link to the theme store. Here you can browse through all of the pre-esigned store themes within Shopify that you can install and then customize with your own branding, which is super convenient. Of course, most of these cost money and we're on a budget. So, you can just click the free themes button and now the search results will be filtered to only show the free themes.

04:38
And when you're browsing through these, if any of the themes interest you, you can preview how they look. To do that, just click on a theme and then click on the demo store button. And now Shopify will show you a demo store that you can scroll around to see how it looks. And you can open up different pages within the demo store just by clicking on them. So, for example, this is what a product page looks like with this theme. However, for this tutorial, we're going to be using a specific free theme, and that theme is craft. So, just scroll down the themes page with the free theme selected until you find the craft theme.

05:10
It's one of the highest rated of the themes because, in my experience, it's really good. Then, once you've opened it up, just click to try the theme. Shopify will now install the theme files within your store. However, the theme will not yet be published. it will just be a draft theme. So, click the publish button once it's finished loading up in your account. And again, confirm you want to publish it on the pop-up menu. And then that's it. Shopify will take a few moments to load it in, but pretty soon you will see that it has replaced the default theme with our new free theme, Craft. Yay. So, then we can now go ahead and get a free Printify account for our store.

05:46
So, yes, this here is Printify. And my guess is that for many of you watching, you probably know what Printify is. However, some of you will be new around here. So, for those of you who are new, I will quickly explain what it is. So, Printify is arguably the largest and most popular print on demand website and app. Inside of here, you will find in the catalog that there are hundreds of different blank products that you can customize and sell. For example, one product we will be adding in later is a t-shirt, which currently you can buy from Printify for around $8 to $11 per shirt. And well, customizing it is easy.

06:21
You just upload a picture that you want to print onto it. Then you just list it in your store for a market price. So, for example, you could sell it for $19.95 with shipping being an extra $5. And then each time a customer comes and buys it from you, Shopify will collect the money from the customer. So, in this case here, they'll collect around $25. They'll process the money and then send it directly to your bank account. And while this is happening, Printify is also working on autopilot for you. Essentially, when the customer orders the product from you, Printify will automatically see the order and it will go,

06:53
"Yep, let's make and ship them the t-shirt." They will then charge your payment details that you've added into your account the wholesale cost to print and ship the t-shirt and then they will send the order to the print shop. The print shop will then print your picture that you've uploaded onto the t-shirt and they will package it up and they will ship it out to the customer and you don't have to do anything. So, yes, that is how it works. And I personally love print on demand for two reasons. Firstly, as you can clearly see, compared to other forms of e-commerce, print on demand has very little risk. Because Printify only charges you the cost to print and ship an item after a customer has already paid you for it and the market price for it.

07:33
And secondly, I love it because it is super passive. Once I set up my stores, other than answering emails from customers, there isn't really much I need to do dayto-day, which is why I'm able to travel the world so much. So yes, I will include my affiliate link to Printify in the video description below. Just click on it, then click on the sign up button. Then you can create an account either with your email address or with your Google account or your Apple account. Then once you've done that, you'll be taken to a survey. Unlike with the Shopify survey, you can't skip this one. So just answer the questions as best as you can.

08:06
Then once you finished answering the questions, you will be in your Printify dashboard. And we're almost done. Now you can go in and you can tweak any settings that you like. A lot of these settings are optional, but there are a few setting tweaks that I recommend. Firstly, in the store settings section, I recommend adding in your store name. If you know what you want to be calling your store, you can come in here and add your store name for branding purposes. If you don't, though, you can always add this in later. Secondly, you will also see in here an option to add a legal disclaimer if you plan to ship to EU countries.

08:37
If you plan to sell to the European Union, then you can select this. If you don't, then you cannot tick it. It is up to you. Either way, just click save. Then next, you want to click on wallet. And then in the payments page, come and add a form of payment. You can add either a credit card or a debit card. Now, this section can confuse a lot of people since, well, a lot of people think that the way that Printify works is that they will automatically deduct the cost of the production and shipping for the item from the money that the customer has paid you. But it doesn't work like that because it isn't Printify who collects the money from the customer after they buy an item in your store.

09:15
It is Shopify and legally Shopify owes you the money since it's your store, not Printifies. And so here's how it actually works. When I sell a product in my store, Shopify will pay me each day the money I earn and pay it directly into my bank account. And it usually takes 2 to three business days for banks to process this money. However, ideally, you want Printify to send your order to the print shop right now so that the customer can get their product ASAP, right? So, that's why we add a credit card or debit card in. This allows us to pay for the wholesale t-shirt price and shipping cost upfront. And for me, I actually really like paying for this cost upfront myself because it allows me to use a credit card that rewards me for using it,

10:01
like my MX Platinum card. Each time I use this card to pay for products for my customers, I earn credit card reward points, which I can then exchange for airline miles so that I can get free and discounted flights and business class upgrades. It's thanks to these miles that I've earned from print on demand that I've been able to fly me and my family business class around the world for free. So, I consider it a good thing, not a bad thing, that I pay these costs upfront with my credit card. And then two to three days later after the money from Shopify has cleared in my bank account, I just pay off the credit card well before any interest is due.

10:37
So yes, you can either add in a credit card like me or a debit card which has a bit of cash on it to cover the upfront costs. Either way, it's up to you. Then after that, we will connect Printify to our store so that it can fulfill orders automatically for us on autopilot. And that's simple to do. Just come and click to add a new store into your account and then click to connect a Shopify store and then make sure that you select to connect your existing Printify account that you just created to your Shopify store. And then next we will need to add in our Shopify store URL into Printify to finish connecting the two together.

11:12
And this is easy to do. Just come back to your Shopify store dashboard. And next to the online store button in the menu, click to view your store. When you do, Shopify will take you to your store homepage. And all you have to do is come to your internet browser URL bar and copy the URL that you see here. Then you can come back into your Printify connection screen and paste this URL in. And then you can just click to connect it. Shopify will then pop up again asking if you want to install the Printify app. So just confirm that yes, you do want to install it. This might take a few moments, but once it's installed, Printify will then pop up in your Shopify store showing that it is now installed.

11:50
All you have to do then is come back to Printify and click the button to confirm that you have now connected it to your Shopify store. And that's it. Inside of your Printify dashboard, you will now have a Shopify icon next to your store name, confirming that yes, the two are connected. Nice. On to the next step. But first, we have a quick word from today's video sponsor, store domain names. Yes. So, as my longtime subscribers know, I am super picky about video sponsors. I only take sponsors that I trust. And the thing is, I am personally a big fan of dostore domain names. And here is why. If you go to the biggest online stores and Shopify stores getting the highest conversions right now,

12:29
like Cristiano, Ronaldo's, Mr. Beasts, Rihanna's and even Emirates, you will see that they've chosen to use a dotstore domain name, not a dot domain name because studies have shown that it actually does help you to sell more. A detailed study showed that websites with a dotstore domain name get 87% more traffic and that they get two times higher rankings than other websites in Google. And it's because when customers are searching for products and they see a dot store website, they click on it because they instinctively know it's exactly what they're looking for. This increases the website conversions and thus its search engine rankings.

13:05
Which is why later on in this video when I add a domain name to the store, I'll be adding in a dotstore domain name to get this traffic boost. And so if you'd like to support this channel and its free tutorials, you can get a dotstore domain name for just 99 by clicking on the link in the description and using my coupon code Sarah. And in addition, if you get a dostore domain name with my coupon, you will also get free plus access to elevate.store. store, which is a curated toolkit for online sellers that gives big discounts and exclusive deals for popular marketing tools. You'll be able to access these discounts through their plus portal,

13:42
which you will get access to for free when you get a dotstore domain name. But yes, either way, back to the course. And now, let's go ahead and add in our first product to our new store, a t-shirt. Yes. So, this is pretty simple. First up, just get your image file that you plan to upload and sell onto products. I'll be using this image here. And this is actually, by the way, a design that I created myself within Canva. And if you're curious about how I did this, I will have a design step-by-step tutorial later on in this video. But yes, back to Printify. So, come and click on the catalog button. Then, a menu will pop up with the different types of products that they have available in their catalog.

14:22
So, for us, we want to make a t-shirt. And since it'll be unisex, we can just click on either t-shirts under men's or women's clothing. Then when you do, you'll see that you have a lot of t-shirts to pick from. Now, you might already know which t-shirt you want to sell. And if so, that's great. But for most new stores, this can be kind of overwhelming. So, to help you, here are the two most popular t-shirts right now for most stores. The first is the Comfort Colors 1717 by Gilden. This t-shirt's claim to fame is that it's a soft t-shirt that has a vintage look and feel to it along with vintage colors which are very trendy.

14:58
This vintage look does however mean it's a thicker style of t-shirt. And the second t-shirt is the Bella Canvas 3001. This t-shirt's claim to fame is that it's not just soft but super soft. The Bella Canvas brand is also overall sweet shop free whereas Gilden is not. The super softness does however mean though that is a thinner style of t-shirt. And whether people prefer a thicker or thinner t-shirt is kind of up to personal preference. So which one you like is really up to you. For me, I personally love the Bella Canvas 3001 and the Bella Canvas brand in general. So I'll be using that t-shirt for this video.

15:32
Either way, once you pitch your t-shirt, just click on it. And when you do, you'll be taken to the product page. Now, here is the thing, right? Most people don't actually know what Printify is. They think that Printify is a print shop that prints the products it sells for you. But it's not. If we come and manually look at the list of print shops within Printify's network that make this t-shirt, you will see that it isn't Printify that makes and ships these t-shirts. It's actually these external print shops. Because you see, as I said, Printify is not a print shop. It doesn't have any of its own printing facilities.

16:06
Nope. If you were to go to Printify's headquarters, you would see offices, not printers. Printify themselves is just a tech company. They specialize in creating the website and app that external print on demand print shops use to sell their products directly to the public. Basically, you could think of it like the Uber Eats are print on demand. Uber Eats don't make the food they sell. It's instead just a tech company that makes the websites and apps that external restaurants can then sell their food through. Like when you go to Uber Eats and you order a burger, that isn't Uber Eats themselves that makes you a burger,

16:38
is it? It's the restaurant that you picked. Well, this is exactly what Printify is. All of these print shops they've listed here in their print provider section are external print suppliers that list their products through the Printify app. And this is important to know because when you open up a product like the Bella Canvas 3001 t-shirt that has multiple print shops that print this same product, you have two choices. One, you can use the Printify choice feature to let Printify choose which supplier should make your product for you. Each time a customer orders a t-shirt from you, Printify's algorithm will automatically decide which print shop it will send your order to.

17:15
So, if you want to use this, you can click start designing on this option. Or two, you can click the choose manually option and pick which of the suppliers in the network you specifically want to print your t-shirts. And there is no right or wrong answer here. If you don't know which one you want to use or you will have lots of international customers and you want your orders to be rerouted to print suppliers based in the customer's country, then the Printify choice can be a great option. But if you've gone ahead and watched reviews for different suppliers, such as my Printify review here and know one in their network that you specifically like,

17:50
then you can choose it. And as my longtime subscribers know from reviews like this one for clothes, I've personally had great experiences with Monster Digital, who also as a company goes by the name TSC Miami. My customers have really liked the t-shirts that they've made. So for me, I'd choose them manually myself, but this is totally up to you. Either way, once you have made your choice, you'll then be in the product design page. From here, you can find your design that you want to use on your computer and upload it to your t-shirt. Then once it's finished uploading, check that it is in high resolution.

18:24
I only recommend printing designs that are in high resolution onto t-shirts. Then you can choose your t-shirt color varants. For example, you can see that this design looks terrible on a white t-shirt. But if I click the black t-shirt color, it looks great. So this is definitely a design that works well with darker colors. Of all of the t-shirt colors, black t-shirts usually sell the best in my personal experience. And if you don't like a color, you can just untick it. So for me, I didn't like the white color, so I unticked it. And you can also change where and how the design is printed. So you can drag it in the corners to make it bigger or smaller.

19:02
And you can click and drag it around the print area to place it where you want it. And you can also use the align buttons to change how the design is aligned. So you can align it in the center, and you can align it towards the bottom of your design or the top. For most designs, you'll usually want to print it in the center top. And then you can at any time click the preview button to see how it'll look. You can see how it'll look on a standard blank mockup. And you can also see how it'll look like on an actual t-shirt hanging from a clothes hanger. And you can also see how it'll even look when it's actually worn by someone.

19:35
So for me, when I did this, I liked it, but I thought the design was printed a bit too wide. So I went back and resized it a bit to make it smaller. and again put it in the top center of the t-shirt layout. And I previewed again to check. And this time I liked how it was placed. So once you got your design placed where you want it, you can click to save the product. And that's it. It will now be saved to your Printify account as a draft. And so now we can click to start publishing it to our store. And when you do, you will see that you have a lot of different ways to customize your t-shirt listing. Now, later on in this tutorial,

20:09
I will be customizing things like the t-shirt listing title within Shopify because, as you will see, you have a lot more options for editing a listing in there. There is, however, one tweak to your page that you'll possibly want to change. Now, that is the shipping options here. You can tick if you want to add express shipping if it is available for an item. Now, if you do this and a customer picks it, there is something you need to keep in mind. With express shipping, Printify will choose which print supplier will make the item, even if you had manually chosen one. So, for me, I manually chose Monster Digital,

20:43
right? Well, if I choose to add the express shipping option for my customers and they pick this, then Printify won't guarantee that it will be Monster Digital that will make my t-shirt. And for me, as I talked about in this video here, I personally like to know who exactly will be printing my t-shirts I sell. Now, some people do mind, some people don't mind. This is just a personal choice. But since I do, I untick this box. But again, it's up to you. But yes, since we'll be editing this product listing later within Shopify, we can keep all of this as is like I am here. Or you can change it now. It is up to you. Either way,

21:20
once you're done, just click to publish. And that's it. Printify will now publish this t-shirt to your store. It will take a few minutes to finish doing that. You can leave this page if you want during this process. You don't have to keep it open. So then in the meantime, we can go ahead and add in more items such as mugs. Yes. So while t-shirts are by far the most popular print on demand item, mugs are also a pretty popular choice, too. And it's simple to add in. Just come to the catalog button in the menu. And this time under homeware, select mugs. And when you do, you will notice that you have a huge range of mugs to pick from.

21:55
And something else you might notice is that a lot of these mugs also look extremely similar to each other, yet have their own product listings. For example, this mug here. It's just a plain white mug, right? Well, this mug has its own listing, and it costs $5.56 or just $4.15 if you upgrade to a Printify premium subscription. So, what makes that different from this white mug here that cost $5.72 or just $4.27 27 if you have upgraded to a Printify premium subscription. Well, it's because technically while they both are just a white mug, they are different brands of white mugs made by different manufacturers.

22:35
But in practice, they are extremely similar. So, a customer would be unlikely to actually notice the difference between the two. But because they are technically not the same brand of white mug, they each get their own product listing. And so when you encounter products like this where there are a lot of very similar blank products, it is usually a good idea to open up each one and choose based on balancing reviews of the print supplier themselves that you research and their product price. And so you take this one. Spoke Custom Products have a 9.4 rating and their mug price is $5.56 or $4.15 with a Printify premium subscription and the shipping is $6.39.

23:15
Whereas, if we come and open up the white mug that you can buy from the print shop called Taylor, they too have a pretty good rating. It is 9.2, but their price is higher. Again, it's $5.72 a mug or $4.27 with the Printify premium subscription, and their shipping cost $6.99. So, it would be an extra dollar per mug roughly to buy from Taylor compared to Spoke Custom Products. Therefore, in this case here, I would personally choose Spoke Custom Products. And as you can see, because of all of this, there is actually no printified choice option for this mug. Instead, there is just one print supplier selling the specific type of white mug.

23:51
So, they are the only choice that we can pick. Then, once you're inside the product editing area, again, upload the picture you want to print onto the product. And when you do, you'll quickly realize that while for most products like t-shirts, you want to print the design in the center, for some products, you won't actually want to do this. For example, let's say that I put this design in the center of the mug. Well, if I go and preview it, you will see that yes, it is now printing in the center, but that's not what most people want for a mug, is it? They actually want the design to be printed on the left and the right of the mug next to the handle,

24:25
not in the middle. So, if we come back to the product editing page, we can move the design to instead be on the left of the product. I used the little circle above the design and put that in the center of the line to get the design into position. Then I click the preview button to see how it looked. And as you can see, the design is now printed on the left side of the mug, which is great. But for this particular type of product, you usually want the design printed twice. Once on the right of the mug, once on the left of it. So to print the design twice, come back to the product editing page and click on the design and then select the duplicate button from the menu.

25:00
Now you'll have a new copy of the design. You can now move this to a new printing spot on your item. You can see that as you do that Printify's AI rulers will snap into place to match the printing placement of the first image but mirrored on the other side of the mug. And so now if we come back to the preview section, you will see the design is printing on both the right side of the mug next to the handle and on the left side of the mug next to the handle. And something that is great to know is that uploading multiple images onto a single print area like this does not cost any extra. You can upload multiple images onto a single printing area and combine them if you want like I have done here.

25:38
And so once you're happy with it, you can click to save the product and then on the confirmation page, click to publish it. And again, because I prefer to edit my product pages within Shopify as it gives you more editing options, I usually keep this as is. However, you might notice at this time if we come to shipping that unlike with the t-shirt which had expedited shipping as an option, this print supplier spoke custom products does not offer expedited shipping. This is not a feature that all print suppliers offer. So, it's good to keep this in mind, but yes, once you're done making any changes you want on here,

26:10
just click to publish it into your Shopify store and that's it. And again, it'll take Printify a few minutes to load in all of your files such as your product images. So, in the meantime, let's add in another product type. And this time, we're going to be adding in another type of popular product, stickers. Yes. So, another very popular category of products within Printify's product catalog is stationary products, which are in the homeware section. And out of all of the stationery, stickers are their bestselling product. So, we're going to select this from the list. Then once you do, you'll see that you've got lots of stickers and magnets as currently they are also grouped together with stickers to choose from.

26:50
However, for this tutorial, we're going to be creating the most popular sticker with customers, which is the classic kiss cut sticker, which is their best seller. And here's the thing, this is a type of product that like t-shirts has multiple print suppliers that make it. They currently have two suppliers that make the specific type of sticker. So once again, if you want to let Printify's algorithm choose which will make it, you can just click the Printify choice button. Or alternatively, you can click the choose manually button. And interestingly, if you do, you'll see that currently only one supplier is actually available to be selected,

27:24
which is Spoke Custom Products. And sometimes this happens. Printify themselves work with multiple different print jobs as part of their Printify choice option. However, when you go to manually select them, not all of them will necessarily be available to be manually picked. And my guess is that when this happens, it's probably due to reliability and company size. My guess is that out of the two suppliers that Printify is working with as part of their Printify choice option that Spoke Custom Products are probably by far the biggest and they probably the most reliable. And so while Printify themselves might be willing to send off a small portion of their orders to their Printify choice option,

28:04
that doesn't mean that they're necessarily able to offer it as a full manual choice. But again, it's just a guess. I don't know the full reason why. So I'm just speculating here. So it's up to you which option you choose. Personally, I prefer to know who exactly will print my products. So I like to manually choose my print shop, but that is my personal preference. Then once you're inside the product editor, once again, upload your design onto it. By default, it will fill in as much the printing area as possible with your design, which is usually what you want for a kiss cut sticker. You usually want to fill as much the printing space as possible and not resize it.

28:40
This is also a product that comes in multiple variations that you are going to need to make a choice on. So, if you come to variants and click select variants, you'll see multiple sizes for the sticker are available. You can choose which size sticker you'd like to sell just by ticking or unticking it. Plus, you can also choose the types of stickers that you want to sell. So, if you click on the surface tab, you can choose whether you want to sell white stickers or transparent stickers or both. And if you click on the preview button, you'll see that these are quite different. The transparent sticker is exactly that.

29:10
The border is partially transparent and the design itself is partially transparent. whereas the white sticker has a solid white border and the design itself has no transparency. Usually, in my experience, customers prefer the white stickers, but I like to sell both to give customers options. Either way, once you've chosen which variants to sell, you can click to save the product. And on the confirmation page, you can click to publish it. And again, while you can choose to edit parts of your product page here, I personally prefer to do that within the Shopify editor, so I'll skip over that. And since Spoke Custom Products don't offer expedited shipping,

29:45
unlike Monster Digital from earlier who did, it means that you can't select that as a shipping option. If this changes in the future and they offer it, you can choose to select this if you want. And then that's it. Just click again to publish it in your store. It will take Printify a few minutes to upload all of the files into your Shopify account. And while it's doing that, let's discuss an important question, which is this. What is Printify Premium and should you get it? That is a good question. Right now, you might have noticed that Printify has two types of accounts. They have a free account and a paid premium account.

30:18
So, should you upgrade? Well, it depends. The biggest perk is that you get some pretty big product discounts, like really big. So, you take t-shirts, right? If you order a Bella Canvas 3001 t-shirt from Monster Digital, the starting price for a t-shirt with no premium subscription is $11.54. But with a premium subscription, it's just $9.22. That's a huge saving. So whether you should get Printify Premium really comes down to sales. Once you anticipate that you're going to get enough sales each month that your discounts would equal or even better beat the Printify Premium price, then it is a no-brainer upgrade.

30:57
Then you can make even more money per sale. But until then, you don't need to upgrade and can stick to the free account. So then that's how you upload products within Printify. The next question people often ask me is this. Okay, Sarah, but how did you come up with the products like these that you made? And it's a good question. It's a two-step process. First, I have to come up with the idea and then I actually have to create the design itself. So, let's get started by talking about how I use AI to come up with product ideas. And my process is honestly pretty simple. Basically, what happens is when I am on websites like Etsy or eBay or Amazon where people sell print on demand t-shirts,

31:36
I pay attention to designs that I can see are trending and popular that I could repurpose in my own stores. For example, I noticed that this t-shirt on Amazon had started to gain traction. You can see that in the past month, it's had over a 100 sales. Now, here's the thing, right? I take ideas like this I see and repurpose them to turn them into new ideas using chat GPT because while I do not agree with copying other people's products, I think it's absolutely fine to get inspiration from the things that you see around you to create new ideas. So that's what I did here. I got CHPT to help me come up with a new way to repurpose this idea,

32:15
but to turn it into an entirely new design aimed at an entirely different crowd of customers, people who love coffee instead of golf. Basically, I call this the cross idea formula. You take one idea and you cross it with another to create something new. And so in this case here, we have taken the funny slogan, life is full of important choices, and we have crossed it with an entirely new niche, coffee, to create a very different design. And so, let me now show you how I take a product idea like this and actually turn it into a design I could sell using Canva. Yes. So, as my longtime subscribers know, Canva is an AI powered drag and drop graphics editor,

32:54
and I am absolutely obsessed with it. I absolutely love it. And to create my designs within Canva, I use their pro version, which comes with millions of fonts, images, and AI powered tools. And luckily, if you want to follow along with me, Canva does actually give out a huge 30-day free trial to their pro account. So, I will include my affiliate link in the description below. Click this sign up and get a free 30-day account. Then, once logged in to create a new design, click the create button. Next, click custom size and create a large canvas. I made mine 5,000x 4,000 pixels to give myself lots of room to design on.

33:30
Then I went ahead and clicked on elements and I did a search for coffee maker silhouette pictures and clicked on graphics. And as you can see, Canva has lots of graphics pre-installed that you can use. And to add any graphics onto your design, just click on it. And when you do, canvas AI will often create a magic recommendations tab for you. This is Canvas AI looking at the image you selected and then guessing which of its other millions of images it has in its library it thinks that you might like based on that choice. I use magic recommendations a lot because when creating designs for print on demand products that use multiple images,

34:06
it usually looks better if they all have a consistent style and aesthetic. And so that's what I did. I went through canvas images and found images of different types of coffee makers that matched my silhouette style and aesthetic. Then next I clicked on the text icon in the menu and added in a line of text and I typed out the first line of our slogan. I highlighted it and clicked on the fonts. Now Canva literally has thousands of fonts installed which is great for creating lots of niche designs but they are a lot to sort through. So you can use their font folders which group fonts into different types of themes to make it faster to find the font style that you want.

34:45
Next, I zoomed in on the text and used the advanced text spacing tools to increase the sizing between the letters. And then that was it. I then just dragged it into the corners to fill the design space. After that, I then went and added in the next line of text. But this time when I picked the font for it, I went through and opened up the vintage font folder and scrolled through and picked a different style of font to add contrast to it. And then I just went and played around a bit with letter spacing. But yes, I pretty much finished my design. I just wanted to make one little quick change because I plan to upload this onto black t-shirts.

35:17
I knew my design couldn't be in the color black. So I changed the text colors. I just clicked on and highlighted the text box, then click the color button. And here you have three options. First, you can pick one of Canvas pre-selected colors. Secondly, you can click the color wheel and then choose from any of the colors in here. Or thirdly, if you know the hex code for the color you want, like I did, you can just enter it in here. So yeah, I then just changed the color of the text box and I also clicked on each of the pictures and I changed the color too to match the text. And then I was ready to save and download it.

35:50
And doing it is easy. Just click the share button. Then click download and make sure PNG is selected from the drop-own menu for file type. And I also like to dial up the file size to increase the resolution when compressed and printed onto a product. And then for most designs, you will probably want to tick the transparent background button. Ticking this is optional, but here is why most designs will want it. This is what it looks like if I don't make the background transparent. The design will stay with the white background. Whereas, if I tick it, this is what it looks like instead. The background is transparent and it's just the design.

36:24
So, yes, if you want it to look like that, be sure to tick the transparent box. So, yes, either way, just come back and click download and that's it. you created a design in Canva. Super simple, right? And here's the thing. Oftentimes, it's not the actual design process that's difficult. The difficult part is in coming up with good product ideas to create and sell. And so, if you're interested in my process of how I research and create top selling product designs using Canva and AI tools, then you can check out my free print on demand ebook, the six steps that sixfigure online stores follow to make over $10,000 a month online with print on demand.

37:00
You can find a link to download my free ebook in the video description below. But anyway, back to the tutorial. And let's now head back to Shopify. And now that we've finished adding in our products, we can go and make some cool lifestyle mockup photos of them. Yep, just go ahead and add in all the products that you plan to sell with Printify into your store like I did here. And then we can go ahead and start editing your listings within Shopify. And to do that, we need to do a few things first. The first thing is that we need to get some cool lifestyle mockup photos of our products. And I'm going to show you two different ways that you can do that.

37:34
The first is that you can make these within Canva for free. Just come to apps and do a search for mockups and click on the generic Canva mockup app. Inside of here, you'll find a huge range of included mockup photos that you can use. Some are available within the free account. Some require a pro account. Although again, I'll include my affiliate link to where you can get a free 30-day Pro Canva subscription in the description box below. So then once you've chosen a mockup, editing it is easy. Just come and upload the design you want to place onto it into Canva and then drag and drop it into the mockup. This will take a few moments to load,

38:09
but Canva will place it into the printing area for you. Then click on the mockup. If you want to change the color of it, you can. So I changed this to be a black t-shirt. Then click apply. Now the t-shirt color is black. And now you can edit the actual design itself in this box here, resizing it and moving it around to fit the printing area. And now if we click apply, you'll see that the design will now be resized to fit the t-shirt mockup printing area. Very cool. So now we can just go and click share and click download and then save this. And that's it. Now you have a lifestyle mockup. So that's one way to make a photo like this.

38:45
Now, let me show you a second way by using this app here, Placeit. I'll admit, this is my personal favorite app for mockups, and it's how I make my lifestyle mockup photos, and it's because they have tens of thousands of photos in a big range of niches for lots of different types of products. For example, they have a huge range of mockups to choose from for different types of mugs. And they have over a hundred mock-up photos of candles to pick from, which by the way are actually one of the most popular trendy print on demand products right now, interestingly enough. And they have a huge selection of mock-ups for blankets,

39:21
which is also another one of the most popular trendy print on demand products currently. And of course, they also have an insanely big selection of mock-ups for clothing, especially t-shirts. And they have so many different types of mockups that you can often find a mockup that is in the specific niche that your design is in. Especially for the most popular products like t-shirts and mugs, too. For example, if I come and do a search for barista t-shirt mockups, you will see that Playset has a lot of different mockups within their database featuring baristas wearing t-shirts that I can customize with my own designs,

39:56
which is obviously great since, as you probably noticed, my store is in the coffee and hot drink niche. So, I can just come and click on any that I like. And when I do, you'll see that Playsets AI will identify other similar photos featuring this model it thinks I might also possibly like. So you take this one here, right? Since I like this one, I can click to edit it. Then once it's loaded up the mockup, you can change the color of the blank product that you're editing. So you can change this t-shirt to be any color that you like. For me, I wanted a black t-shirt color, so I picked that. Then you just come in and upload your design onto the product.

40:32
And when you do, you'll see a little preview box showing you how your design looks on it. You can then resize it in the editor and you can move it around the printing area and get it exactly the way that you want. And then when you're done, just click crop. And that's it. You have your design. Then you can just click to download it. Now, this won't actually download it. Instead, this begins the process of place it processing your design and the mockup into a single image. Once that's done, you can then click to actually download it. And that's it. You have your mockup that you can now use for your product. Yay.

41:05
And by the way, if you want to give Playet a go for free before you actually go ahead and buy a subscription, you can. They have a free account which lets you access all of the mockups in their library, but all of them do come with a watermark. So, to get rid of this watermark, you will need to upgrade to an unlimited plan. But, I definitely think it's worth it because again, this is what I personally use for my mockups. So, I will include my affiliate link to this in the description box below and you can give it a go and try it for yourself. So, then all right, now that we've got some cool mockup photos for our products,

41:38
we can go ahead and organize them into product collections. Yes. So, product collections are ways to organize our products into easily navigable product groups for our customers. And there are two main ways that people usually do this. The first is by product type. So, for example, I'm going to group my products into four different categories. T-shirts, mugs, stickers, and also enamel mugs. Since I have added these in two for the store as a fourth type of product, but you could also group them by design niche. So, for example, if you had a store that focused on t-shirts for holidays, you could group them by niche rather than product.

42:10
So, you could have a Halloween collection and a Christmas collection and a Valentine's Day collection, that sort of thing. And adding them in is simple. In the left side menu, select products and then select collections from the drop-own menu. And then select to add a collection. Then give your collection a name. And then I recommend having manual sorting turned on and then selecting the browse button and then going through and choosing the products that you want to add into this collection. So for me, I went through and added in each of my t-shirts. Then after that, add an image into your collection.

42:40
And for this, I'd usually recommend adding in one of your favorite mockup images, such as a lifestyle mockup photo that you made with Playset, like I did here with this photo. Then once it's finished loading up, click done. And then just click save. And that's it. You've added in a collection. Later on in this tutorial, we will need at least three collections when we design our homepage. So I recommend adding in at least three collections now to your store. So then we can now move on to customizing and optimizing our product pages. And it's super simple to do. Just click on products in the left side menu and then come and open up the product page that you want to edit.

43:16
Then just come and update your product with your item title. Then come and write out a description. And for this, the free chat GPT competitor Claude is great. Just open this AI up and upload a photo of your product and give it some details about what you're selling and what you'd like your description to include or not include and let it do its magic. Claude is very similar to Chat GPT. It is also a chatbot LLM tool, but it has been trained differently. ChatGpt prioritizes user approval, whereas Claude prioritizes being helpful, honest, and harmless. As a result of this training, it usually outperforms chat GPT when it comes to natural human sounding writing.

43:54
So, this created a great first draft for me. I then just copied and pasted it into my description and I went through and made some tweaks rewriting anything that you know sounded very AIish and also getting rid of any obvious AI signs like M dashes but yes once I had gone through and edited the description I then came down to the product photos. Now oftent times Printify will add in a lot of photos many of which you don't need. So, for this t-shirt here, you can see it added in a plain front mockup for each t-shirt. And it also added in a relaxed, casual front mockup for each t-shirt. And it also added in back mock-ups,

44:30
too. So, just come and take any of the mock-ups that you want to delete. For me, I decided to delete all except for the relaxed casual front mockups since this design didn't feature any prints on the back. So, I decided to get rid of those as well. Then, just come and upload any lifestyle mockup photos for your product that you've created. Then after that, scroll down and we can edit the product price. And if your product comes in multiple variants like this t-shirt does, you can change the price for each variant individually. There are 24 variants for this t-shirt because it comes in six sizes across four colors.

45:03
It is standard now within the print on demand industry to have the largest sizes priced higher because their product blanks also cost more due to material. So yes, just go ahead and update your product prices. Then after that, scroll down and you'll come to the metadata which you can now edit. In particular, you can edit the meta title and the meta description. And this is very important. The metatitle and description is what you see when you search for something within Google and it recommends a website to you. Having a meta description and title is important for helping Google's algorithm know who your products are for and what keywords they are relevant to so that they can show your products to potential customers looking for them.

45:43
But they are also important for AI chatbots too. These days a lot of people use AI tools like Chat GPT instead of Google to find products to buy. AI will recommend stores online and they will use metadata to help them figure out which stores and products are most relevant to what their user is looking for. So you want a descriptive meta title that is optimized for both of these. And for this, I recommend ChatGpt to help you. Because while Claude is great at creating natural sounding writing for descriptions, CHGBT is often more strategic at coming up with highly optimized data for algorithms. Chat bots and Google's algorithm each look for different things.

46:18
So, you can see that Chat GBT came up with a draft for the title and the description, which were balancing both of these needs. I then added them in and tweaked them to be shorter and to again remove any obvious AI elements like the M dashes. And if you like, you can change the URL like I did here. I changed it to have the word t-shirt at the end instead of T to match my title. If you do, turn on the redirect option. Then we'll just make some final tweaks. So firstly, I like to come in and delete the tags. It's probably not a big deal, but in the past tags have had issues with Google SEO. So I like to delete these just to be on the safer side.

46:54
Then come and change your vendor to be your store name instead of Printify. And then just come and click save. And that's it. Now you can click preview and when you do you will see what your product page looks like and you can check for any glitches or errors. So yes, just go through now and edit each of your product pages and then once you've done that we can then customize the store design layout and colors. And this is super simple to do. On the left side menu, click online store and you should be on the themes page. Then come and click the customize button next to your theme. Now you'll be inside of your theme editor.

47:26
At any time, you can come to the buttons at the top of the screen. You can click the widescreen button to see what your store looks like as you edit it on a computer screen. And you can click the mobile button to see what it will look like on a mobile phone. And you can click the desktop button to return to the standard editing screen with the editing menu. But yes, the first thing we're going to do is upload our logo. So, click on the theme settings button. Then in the settings, come to the logo section. Then select to upload your logo. And then on the upload box, upload your source logo image into it. And by the way,

47:59
if you'd like to know how I made my logo, I actually used Canva. So again, if you'd like to get a free 30-day pro trial to Canva, I will include my link in the video description below. But yes, once it's finished uploading, just click done. Then you can choose to make your logo bigger or smaller by dragging the width slider. Then next, come and click select next to the favicon. And then on the upload box, upload a favicon. And if you don't know what a favicon is, it is the little icon that you see in your internet browser tab. It just needs to be a small image that is at least 32 pixels x 32 pixels. Then once it's uploaded,

48:34
just click done. And that's it. You can now close the logo section. And now you can open up the color section. And we're going to change the background color for color scheme one. Now you can change this to be any color that you like, of course, but I'm going to change it to be white because it's neutral and it works with lots of different types of products and niches. Then after that, we're going to close the color tab and open up the typography tab. Then click on the title font and choose a new font. To see how they look, just click on it and your store title font will change to this new font. So you can go through and pick a font that matches with your store brand and aesthetic.

49:08
You can either choose to use different fonts for the title and the body text, or you can just use the same font for both. It's up to you. I like to use the same font for both to keep things simple and easy. And for me, my favorite font is the Kamaran font. So I selected that. Then after that, just do the same except of course, change your body text font. And again, you can just pick from the huge list. Or if you know the font like I did, you can just type it in the search bar and select it. Then once you finished choosing your store fonts, you can then close the font section. Then next, we're going to open up the layout section.

49:40
And here you can change your store spacing. So let me show you how I personally like to change this. If we come and view our store in widescreen mode, you'll see that currently the store width is 1,200 pixels wide. While back in the editing settings, a layout change that I like to make is I like to change this to just be 1,000 pixels. And so now if we view it in widescreen format, you'll see the design is more narrow. I prefer to do this because it lets me use smaller images while maintaining a higher resolution. But that's just my personal preference. You can change these however you like. For example, you could choose to increase the width between template content sections.

50:16
If you do, there will now be a much bigger gap. So, a lot of this stuff really just comes down to personal preference. Either way, once it's looking the way that you want, you can close the layout section. Now, from here, there are lots of different tweaks you can make to your design, such as changing the buttons or changing the content section borders, that sort of thing. So, you can tweak these if you like, but in my case, study store, I was able to leave these as is, and I still had a high conversion rate. So any changes you make here, I genuinely think are more just about personal preference. Either way, one more tweak in settings I definitely recommend everyone do if they can though is to open up the social media tab.

50:53
And if you have any social media profiles for your store, add them in here. And if you don't have them yet, you can add them in here later. They will appear as clickable icons in your store footer once you add them in. But yes, once you're done updating your store theme settings, just click save. And that's it. We can now open the sections editor. And so now we can edit the front page design. So first up, we can edit the text for our store banner. I recommend including the store banner if you have a special offer that you want to promote, such as free shipping. However, if you don't have any special offer or announcement that you need to have on your store homepage,

51:27
you can instead click to hide this banner. Then next, we're going to edit the welcome text on our homepage. So click to open up the rich text widget and then come and change this to be some new welcoming text. And if you need any help coming up with this, then of course you can use an AI chatbot like Claude or Chat GPT to help you come up with some welcoming text that is customized to your store and its niche. Then you can change the text size. You can make it smaller or you can make it bigger. Much bigger. And personally I quite like the medium text size for this. Then next we're going to come and edit the collage section.

52:01
By default two collages have been included and I think it looks a lot nicer personally with three. So with your cursor under the second collage, click the plus icon that appears. And then in the menu, select to add a collage to the section. And then you'll have three empty collage sections. And editing them is easy. Just click on one and then select a product collection we made earlier to add into it. And as you can see, the photo we added into the collection is now showing here. So just go and click on each of these collages and choose a collection to showcase in it. This is why I said earlier that you will need at least three product collections because we are showcasing three of them here on the homepage.

52:38
Then after that, we've got one more change. We're going to edit the featured collection. So, click on it in the menu and then come and using the slider, increase the number of products being shown. You can also change the collection that it's showcasing if you like. By default, Shopify is currently setting this to be your general products page, which includes all of your products. But yes, either way, once you've done that, that's it. You've now finished designing your homepage. So, just click save. And now you can go ahead and preview how it looks on both a computer and a mobile phone. This is the exact layout that I personally tested in my new store with no reviews and had a high conversion rate.

53:13
It is a simple, clean design. Then after that, we're going to make a couple more tweaks. Firstly, we're going to change the text in the footer. So, just scroll down and then in the footer, click the text and then change it. A simple call to action button to sign up to get access to special offers and coupons is fine. And if you need any help rewriting this, again, AI is great for that. You can use Claude or Chat GPT. You'll also notice that down here, the social icons we added in earlier in the theme settings appear here. And you'll also notice that a PayPal icon is here. Don't worry, soon we'll be adding in additional forms of payment.

53:47
And those credit card icons like Mastercard and Visa will appear here, too. But yes, just go ahead and save your changes to your footer. Then come and click on the drop-own menu and select to edit the checkout page. And then you can go ahead and upload your store logo into your checkout page to customize it. And you can use the logo slider icon to change how big or small it appears on this page. Then next, as an optional extra, I recommend in the settings panel coming to the color section because you see on the checkout page, there are some finishing touches that have the color blue, which doesn't fit with every store niche,

54:21
right? So, you can change these to a color more suited to your niche. Like for me, I've changed these to be a coffee bean brown color. And look, now the color accents on the page have that brown color instead of blue. And so now you can go and do a quick preview checking out how your checkup page looks on a computer and on a mobile phone to make sure it's looking the way that you like. And then once you're happy with it, you can click save. And that's it. You finished your store design. And so now we can move on to the next step, which is to add any extra pages that you like into your store. And it's very easy to do this.

54:55
On the left side menu, just click online store. Then in the drop-own menu, select pages. Then on this page, come and click add page. Then all you have to do is come and enter in your page title and the page content. So you can see that I've added in an about us page, but you can add in any sort of pages. So for example, you could add in an FAQ page where you provide answers to commonly asked questions from customers, that sort of thing. And if you need any help coming up with content for your pages, you can of course also ask Chat GPT or Claude to help you come up with content. But yes, once you finish creating your page,

55:28
just click for it to be visible instead of hidden and then click save. And that's it. You can now open up your page and take a look at it and make sure that it's formatted the way that you like. And once you've added in all of your additional pages you want to add, we can move on to the next step. So then let's go ahead and add in Shopify payments, which is Shopify's own payment processor, which will allow customers to purchase products from our store. Because, well, if you've never heard the phrase payment processor before, it's basically just an app that lets customers securely buy items online from our store using their credit cards or debit cards.

56:00
This app will securely collect the customer's card information, take payment from it, process that money, and then send that money to our bank account. Collecting money from customers and then distributing it involves a lot of secure, sensitive data, which is why online stores use payment processes to handle this. And Shopify has their own payment process to Shopify payments. This is the main payment processor that Shopify stores usually use. So, this is the one we will be adding into our store. And it's surprisingly easy to do this. Just click on settings in the left side menu. Then inside of the settings menu,

56:32
click on payments. Then on this page, click the complete setup button under Shopify payments. And then the first thing that you'll need to do is tell Shopify how you're legally running your store. And unless you've registered your business as its own legal entity, such as registering a company or an LLC. For most people, you're probably running it under your own personal name. Then on the next page, you'll just need to fill out some details about yourself. Then on the next page, you'll just need to add in a phone number to your store to be used on bank statements. Then on this page, you'll be asked to look over the details you provided,

57:04
confirm that they are correct, and then provide proof by uploading legal documents that support these details. Now, some people might not feel comfortable uploading personal documents, and I get it. However, it is necessary for Shopify to ask for this information. Unfortunately, there are a lot of scammers out there on the internet. So, the reason why Shopify asks for this information is to prove that you are a legitimate person and not a scammer trying to use their platform to steal money from others. But yes, once you've done that, you'll now be taken back to a payment settings page where a button will be visible asking you to add your banking info.

57:39
So, click on this. Then, if you haven't already set up two factor identification, you will need to do so to continue. So, set up two factor identification with your Shopify account. Then once you've done that, you can again click to add in your bank information. All you need to do is add in the number to your bank account that you want Shopify to send your customers money that they pay you into. And then you can just click save. And that is it. Within a few minutes, my documents and bank account had already been verified by Shopify's AI and I was ready to accept and receive payments. Nice. So then let's now go ahead and edit our store's market and shipping settings.

58:16
Yes. So now that we have enabled customers to be able to pay us, we now need to enable them to have products shipped to them. And to do this, first up, we need to choose which countries around the world that we're willing to ship to. And doing that is simple. Just come and click on markets. Then come and click on the create market button. Then give your market a descriptive title. Then click to add a condition. Then go ahead and choose which countries you are willing to sell and ship to. From this menu, you can either search directly for a country and then tick it, or you can scroll through and select a country from a list.

58:47
If someone tries to buy an item from your store and have it sent to a country that's not on your list, they won't be able to buy. So, you can pick the exact countries in here that you're willing to ship to. And of course, you might be wondering, "Okay, Sarah, well, why don't I just ship globally?" And that's a good question. And the answer is that it is up to you. Do keep in mind though that some countries and regions such as Europe have stricter tax laws and privacy laws. So this is why by default not all countries are selected. And honestly in my experience most of my customers come from United States, Australia and Canada with the USA being by far the biggest customer base since my marketing is in English because that is the language that I'm native in.

59:29
And the USA is by far the biggest English-speaking country in the world. So you don't have to sell globally if you don't want to. But yes, either way, once you finish selecting your countries, click done and then just come and click save. Easy. Then come back to the markets page and go in. And if you don't need a separate domestic market option, you can just delete this. I deleted mine since I already added New Zealand into my other global market that I set up before. Then next, you can double check your shipping settings by clicking on the settings button in the left side menu and then clicking shipping and delivery.

01:00:04
And when you do, you will see that Printify has conveniently added in some shipping profiles for us. Each of their different suppliers has their own shipping rates for different types of products that they sell. And you can open up each one and look over them. And chances are you won't want to make any changes to these since Printify adds them in based on the supplier shipping costs and delivery times already. However, if you did want to edit one, it is easy to do. Just click the menu button next to the rate you want to edit and click to edit it. Then in here, you can make any changes that you like. But again,

01:00:35
for most people, you'll probably just want to keep this as is. But either way, we can now move on to the next step, which is this. We are now going to buy and connect a new domain name for just 99. And if you don't know what a domain name is, it's your store URL. Because you see right now because I haven't connected a custom domain name. You can see that my store has the Shopify subdomain name. This looks very unprofessional, doesn't it? And so instead, what we're going to do is we're going to add in a custom professionallook domain name and URL like this. And as I said earlier, as part of this free course, we are going to be buying a store domain name.

01:01:14
And that is for two reasons. Firstly, as I said earlier in this video, studies are showing that compared to other domain names, store domain names are getting more traffic and they're also converting at higher rates. But secondly, if you buy a domain name directly from the register that owns them, Radics using a discount coupon code like mine, you can pay just 99 cents for the first year, which is crazy. Like seriously, I genuinely don't know of any other way to be able to get a domain name like this for so cheap. Plus, they also have a one-click install for Shopify, which is super convenient. So, here's how to do this.

01:01:49
First up, in the description box for this video, you'll find my affiliate link to dots store domain names. Click on it, and you'll be taken to my referral page. Just come and enter the name of your store, and do a search. It will then load up a bunch of domain names that you can buy, including the dots store domain name. So, go ahead and add that to your cart, and then proceed to buy it. Then on the checkout page, you'll see that my custom discount coupon code of organized with them, Sarah, should be automatically applied, discounting the domain name to just 99. From here, you have two options. You can either have the domain privacy turned on,

01:02:22
which costs an extra $5 for the service, or you can turn it off and just buy the domain for 99. It's up to you. Legally, the Who is organization requires domain providers to disclose in public directories the contact information of anyone who buys a domain name online. So, all domain providers must collect this. However, if a domain provider offers a domain privacy service, it means that they will legally redirect your contact information to keep it confidential from the online public database. It's an optional service, so it's up to you. Either way, go ahead and click place order. And when you do,

01:02:58
you'll be prompted to create an account. So go ahead and click to create an account. And when you do, you will be asked to disclose your contact information. Now, don't worry. If you picked domain privacy before, you will still see this because even if you've turned privacy on, they legally have to collect this information. So just go ahead and fill it out. And then that's it. You'll have an account. And so now you can just go ahead and finish placing your order. Then once you've purchased it, you can then open up your domain management panel. And from here, click to oneclick connect it to Shopify. Then just click connect and that's it.

01:03:34
It will take a few moments as a bunch of settings are being configured for you in the background which will connect your domain name to your Shopify store. I timed it. It took me about 50 seconds, but yes, once it's done, you'll get a success screen like this, which is perfect. And so now all you need to do is in your Shopify dashboard come to settings. Then come and click on domains. Then click connect an existing domain. Then type in your domain name. Then select to connect it. And that is it. As you can see, Shopify should see that all the right settings have already been configured for you during the one-click setup process.

01:04:08
So for me, I didn't need to do anything else, which again is super convenient. And so now we have our own custom domain name for just 99. Yay. But there is something that you need to keep in mind when you buy any new domain name. The register is legally required to confirm your email address within 15 days. So be sure to open up the confirmation email that they send you within those 15 days to confirm your email address with them. So then now we can move on to the next step which is setting up our legal pages like our refund policy, terms of service, things like that. And this is surprisingly simple to do. Just click settings in the left side menu.

01:04:47
Then come and find the policy settings button. Then in here you can add in each of the policies. So we'll start off with the refund policy. Just click the template button and a basic refund policy template created by Shopify will be added into here that you can now customize. So for example, by default it allows refunds for 30 days. So you could, for example, go in and customize it and change it to a different refund return window. And you can come in here and add in your own shipping address if you're going to require customers to send you the item back before you issue them a refund. And you can even choose to customize this further.

01:05:21
So, for example, if the jurisdictions that you are selling to don't require refunds for change of mind, you can state in here that you won't accept them and will only offer refunds for faulty products. A lot of print on demand stores refuse to accept change of mind refunds because technically each item is made to order individually for the customer. But a lot of people say to me, Sarah, what do you do? Do you offer refunds for change of mind? And the answer is actually yes. I do offer refunds for change of mind. I let customers return items because the truth is is that my refund rate is super low. Less than 1% of my customers return and refund their items.

01:06:00
So, I don't mind offering refunds and just easing the cost of the item as part of doing business. And if you'd like to learn more about how I keep my refund super low, I highly recommend watching this video here where I discuss it. Either way, once you're done, click publish. Now, as you can see, we don't need to set up our privacy policy because Shopify now has this really cool automated privacy policy feature, which is super convenient. However, we do need to go ahead and set up a terms of service policy. So, open this up, and then you can use Shopify's template to help you. Again, you will need to go through and find any parts that you'll need to customize,

01:06:37
such as the contact information section of the policy. Then, once you've published that, you'll then need to add in a shipping policy. Now, as you will see, this is the only policy that Shopify does not have a template for. However, that's fine because we can easily write this ourselves using AI. So, what I recommend that you do is you open up the shipping settings within your Shopify store and go through and check out how long the estimated shipping times are for each of the countries that you are choosing to ship to. Then you can come to any AI chatbot that you like and get it to write this for you. So, for example,

01:07:09
you could use chat GBT or Google's Gemini. But for me, as I mentioned earlier, I really like Claude for writing website copy that customers will read as I think it writes in a more natural way. So, I gave it my estimated shipping times and then asked it to create a draft shipping policy for me and take a look at what it made for me. I think it did an amazing job. So, yes, once you finished publishing your shipping policy, there is just one final policy, the contact information policy. Shopify does have a template for this. Keep in mind though, it is entirely optional to create this. It's only a legal requirement if you're shipping to the European Union.

01:07:43
So, if you aren't, you don't need to have this policy. And something else that's really cool is that once you've added these policies in, you can now see that they're automatically displaying in our store footer menu, which well is really convenient. Customers can now click on these and read them. However, something that you may have also noticed is that unlike the footer menu, the top menu of our store does not have anywhere near as many links as the footer menu does. So then, let's go ahead and fix that and update our store's navigational menu. And here's how you do it. On the left side menu, click connect.

01:08:16
Then in the drop-own menu, click menus. Then come and click to edit the main menu. So first up, we're going to add in links to each of our product pages. So click to add a new menu item. Then call it the name of your collection and then click the link box. And in the menu, click collections and then select your collection from the list. Then just click the done button. Now come and put your cursor over the little dots. Click this, hold it, and then drag it up to sit under the catalog menu item and place it slightly to the right to nestle it under the catalog menu. When you let go, you'll see that by doing this, it has now started a new submen.

01:08:53
So, we can now go in and add each of our product collections as a new item directly into the submen. So, go ahead and add in links to each of your product collections now. And then once you've done that, we just need to add in our extra pages that we made earlier. So to do that, click to add a new menu item not in the sub menu and then give it a title and then click the link box and from the menu, select pages and then select the page and then that's it. And so then once you finished editing and adding all of your pages that you want into this menu, you can click save. And this is what it will look like. Our menu has now got more menu items.

01:09:30
And if we click on the catalog button, you'll see a little drop-own menu now appears with links to each of our product collections. And so now customers can browse through our store and check out each of our product collections and navigate around and check out all of our items for sale. Yay. And so it's kind of crazy, but you know, we're actually almost done. Now we can go and just finish off the final few tweaks to our store before we send it live. Yes. So now is your time to go ahead and make any final tweaks that you want to make before we go ahead and send our store live and make it public. Yay. But there are four specific tweaks that I recommend that you make as part of this process.

01:10:09
I recommend that you go ahead and you set your store name, your store currency, your store unit system, and I also recommend that you turn on order fulfillment. So, let me show you how to do this. Just come and click on settings and then in general settings, if you haven't already, come and give your store a name and then just come and click save. Then next, come down to currency. I recommend making sure that your store's main currency matches the currency of your main region that you're selling to. So, since the USA is always my main market, I always make sure that my currency is set to USD. And the same goes for the unit system.

01:10:44
Make sure it matches your main customer region. So, since I usually focus on the USA market as my primary customer base, I change this to be the Imperial system. Then, we'll make one final tweak. Scroll down and come to order processing and select to automatically fulfill order lines. This will enable Printify to process orders passively for you on autopilot. And I also recommend ticking to notify customers upon shipment. I choose not to automatically fulfill orders that Shopify deems to be a high risk of fraud because in that case, honestly, I'd rather just cancel and refund them. Although those sorts of orders,

01:11:17
which are fraud, do tend to be very rare. But yes, once you're done, just go ahead and click save. And so now the time has come. We can now go ahead and send our store live by turning off the password. Yes. Because you see, by default, while we've been setting up our store, Shopify has had our store set to a password screen like this for anyone who is not logged in to the admin account. So, currently, if you wanted to share your store link with someone, they wouldn't be able to see it. Instead, they would see this password screen. But now that we're finished, we can go and change that. Inside of your dashboard,

01:11:53
come and click on online store in the left side menu. Then in the drop-own menu, click on preferences. And then just come to the password screen settings and click to turn this off. And then click save. And that's it. Congratulations. Your store is now live. It is amazing. Congratulations. Yay. But of course, it doesn't end here because you know what? At this point, people often have two questions. The first question is usually this. Okay, Sarah, this is great and all, but how can I get traffic for my store so that customers can actually come in and buy things from me? And the second question that people often ask me is,

01:12:27
"Okay, Sarah, but what if people do actually buy items from me? Then what? What should I do? How do I handle order fulfillment? How does it actually work?" And these are all good questions, aren't they? So, let's start with the first one and discuss how I and others get free traffic and sales to our stores. Yes, if you've seen my previous videos, you'll know that in my stores, I personally focus on free or lowcost traffic methods like SEO. Because you see, there is definitely a very pervasive myth that I have noticed out there, which is this idea that to make money with print on demand that you have to spend money on advertising.

01:13:04
But as I said, that's just a myth. It's not true. Now, don't get me wrong. If you want to advertise your store with Facebook ads or Tik Tok ads, you can. And there is nothing wrong with that. But you don't have to because there are lots of ways that you can get traffic online for free. So one way that I like to get free sales is to get free traffic from my products by getting search algorithms from Google and AI chat bots like chat GPT to recommend my products in my store to others. So for example here right if we do a search for funny gardening t-shirts on Google you will see it is recommending a bunch of products and stores to us on the first page of results and while some of them are bigname stores like Amazon some are independent print ondemand stores so for example you take the store being recommended to us here right this isn't a big store like Zazzle Redbubble or Amazon it's an independent store that is printing

01:13:59
these t-shirts they're selling here on demand And of course, if we scroll down to the bottom of the store, you will see that surprise surprise, it is indeed a Shopify store. And so, this is how I also get traffic and sales. I get search engines like Google and AI chat bots like ChatGpt to recommend my products to people. I make tweaks to my stores and product pages to optimize them for their recommendation algorithms. These tweaks are free to do and it's a process that is called SEO, otherwise known as search engine optimization. If you want to learn more about how I do this, you can come to YouTube's own search engine and look for videos that teach this.

01:14:33
It is unfortunately too big of a topic for me to cover in this already very long tutorial. But there are lots of free tutorials on YouTube already that are dedicated to teaching how to do search engine optimization. Plus, there is another great way to advertise your products cheaply. Short form videos. So, you take this print on demand store here, right, in the dark human niche. They post videos and funny image carousels on Tik Tok and Instagram to advertise their products. So, for example, take their Instagram account. As you can see, they've been open for just 2 years, and they've had over 27,000 customers in their store,

01:15:09
which is pretty amazing. And well, as I said, they use videos to advertise their products. So, for example, this little 5-second Instagram reel of them filming the making of their dark funny t-shirt design, it has had over 2.5 million views, and creating and posting funny videos like this of your products is completely free. Plus, another popular website for driving traffic and sales to your store is Pinterest. So, for example, let's say that we come to Pinterest and did a search for aviation mugs to look for a gift for someone that loves planes. Well, lots of these are from print on demand stores, such as this mug here.

01:15:43
And if we click on the URL linked to the pin, you'll see that it takes us to their independent print on demand store where you can go and buy it. And if we now come back to the pin and open up the user who posted this, you can see that each month they are getting over 90,000 views to their pins and they are advertising their products in them. So this is another way to get free traffic. And if you're interested in learning how to post and optimize pins on Pinterest to get free traffic, then just like with Google SEO, I recommend coming to YouTube and doing a search for Pinterest SEO tutorials to learn how to do this yourself.

01:16:15
Plus, another way that I advertise my products is through also posting them to Etsy. Etsy has integrations with the major print on demand apps like Printify, Printful, so you can post your products directly on their marketplace, too. And Etsy is ridiculously popular. In the past year, customers have bought over $12 billion worth of products here from sellers. And a lot of them are print ondemand products. Like you take these t-shirts, most of these are just print ondemand t-shirts from places like Printify. So basically what I do is I post my products onto Etsy and just piggy back off of the free traffic that's already on here.

01:16:53
And well, by doing this, I'll also make money from selling them on Etsy, which is of course also really great. So, if you'd like to learn more about how I make money on Etsy with print on demand, you can watch my case study videos here. But yes, that's not the only benefit to posting on Etsy. Note, because you see, Google's algorithm is more likely to recommend stores to people who are searching for products to buy if it can see that that store has social proof. And so, that's the great thing about having an Etsy store. If you have an Etsy store and then you post a link to your Etsy store in your Shopify store footer,

01:17:27
well, now the two, they're connected. And so now the sales and reviews that you're getting on Etsy also act as social proof for your Shopify store, too. Which means that Google's algorithm is more likely to recommend your Shopify store and its search results for related keywords, resulting in free referral traffic and potential sales for that store, too. So yes, diversifying by having both a Shopify store and an Etsy store can be a great way to make money because of the fact they can both help each other grow. So if you would like to learn more about how I sell my products on Etsy and make money with print on demand,

01:18:02
you can again download a copy of my free ebook, the six steps that sixfigure online stores follow to make over $10,000 a month online with print on demand. You will find a link to download my free ebook in the video description below. Plus, if you'd like to learn even more information, I also have a video course called The Ecom Clubhouse, which discusses my tips, tricks, and strategies that I've used to get free traffic at my Shopify and Etsy stores. And so, if you're interested in checking out my course, I'll have a link to it in the video description below. It has a risk-free 7-day refund policy, so you can join for 7 days and see if it's right for you risk-free.

01:18:36
But yes, let's now discuss that other big question that many people have when they launch their store, which is this. when someone orders an item from me, what do I do? How does Printify actually work? And it's a great question, right? So, to show you, I just pretended to be a customer in my store and I ordered a t-shirt from it. And here's what happened. So, as you can see in my orders dashboard, the order almost immediately showed up and in less than a minute, you can see that the order had been accepted and sent to Printify. And then that was it. After seeing the orders come through automatically within Shopify and Printify,

01:19:12
do you know what I did? I did nothing. Absolutely nothing. Yep. It was actually kind of getting late. So, I just went to bed and went to sleep. And then the next day, I woke up and checked on the status of my order in the morning. And guess what? While I had been asleep, Monster Digital's print shop had seen the order and fulfilled it. They printed my t-shirt, packaged it up, and shipped it out for me. And my Printify order page had automatically updated to reflect this. You can see that the order status tracker now shows that the t-shirt has been shipped out to the customer. And back in my Shopify order page,

01:19:45
this has also been automatically updated, too. Shopify also sent an email to the email address I made this purchase with, letting me know that my item that I had bought had been shipped. And it also added in the tracking code so that I could track my package. And so this is why, as I've said before on this channel, I consider my print on demand stores to be a very passive source of income. Because outside of designing and adding products, answering any emails, or doing any extra marketing to grow the store, there isn't really anything I need to do, which is why I've been able to travel so much around the world.

01:20:18
Because my print on demand stores run themselves mostly on autopilot, it has given me location freedom, which has genuinely been life-changing for me and I hope can be life-changing for you someday, too. So then, if this video did help you, please consider subscribing. And if you'd like to learn about even more ways that I and others are earning money online, be sure to watch my next video here on screen. and I will see you in the next

